# Analyzing benefits of live server

Earlier versions of "pickban.pro" utilized a peer-to-peer (p2p) system for facilitating communication between two parties but this has since been changed. Here, I'll explain the reasons why we picked the tools we used and why we switched. The first question is simply this: why use a p2p system to begin with? Since we didn't have any initial plans to monetize the site in any way, the idea of running a server - no matter how low the cost - was extremely undesirable. Despite all the benefits a server-side system would give us, we still opted for the p2p solution for what would end up being a false premise - that a p2p system would be simpler to implement. The lesson learned was that a p2p system is indeed simpler to implement; however, a reliable p2p system was much, much harder. In actual user testing, it was determined that reliability was the only obstacle in preventing our tool from being the go-to professional pick/ban tool in the ecosystem, rather than just a practice tool. The next question would be this: how is a server side implementation more reliable, especially since there are now two systems to maintain? The biggest contributing factor to this answer is the fundamental basis that clients are inherently unreliable. Spotty internet connection, unsupported functions that aren't polyfilled, and bad actors are a few of the reasons that a solid p2p architecture requires multiple levels of checks to ensure the integrity and availability of messages. These issues do not exist in server-based implementations. It is true that increasing the number of codebases does introduce more points of fault, but these issues are not only much more easily debuggable, they provide checkpoints of safety that allow other parts of the app to work undisturbed. Finally being able to understand how many server calls a client would eat up during normal use of the app, it was determined that the server cost was manageable save for the occasional spike. Because of how quickly we are able to add features and patch bugs, switching to a server based implementation has made our code base much more maintainable.